CHAPTER VII-IX OF THE BOOK OF ISAIAH
THIS IS A LIBROVOX RECORDING
ALL LIBROVOX RECORDINGS ARE IN THE PUBLIC DOMAIN
FOR MORE INFORMATION OR TO VOLUNTEER
PLEASE VISIT LIBROVOX DOT ORG
RECORDING BY SIMON WAYNRIGHT
THE BOOK OF ISAIAH
King James Version, Chapter 7
And it came to pass, in the days of Ahaz,
the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah,
king of Judah, that Rezin,
the king of Syria, and Pekah,
the son of Ramaliah, king of Israel,
went up toward Jerusalem to war against it,
but could not prevail against it.
And it was told the house of David, saying,
Syria is confederate with Ephraim,
and his heart was moved,
and the heart of his people,
as the trees of the wood are moved with the wind.
Then said the Lord unto Isaiah,
Go forth now to meet Ahaz,
thou, and Shear-deshab thy son.
At the end of the conduit of the upper pool,
in the highway of the fuller's field.
And say unto him,
Take heed, and be quiet,
fear not neither be faint-hearted,
for the two tales of these smoking-fire brands,
for the fierce anger of Rezin with Syria,
and of the son of Ramaliah.
Because Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Ramaliah,
have taken evil counsel against thee,
saying, Let us go up against Judah and vex it,
and let us make a breach therein for us,
and set a king in the midst of it,
even the son of Tabeel.
Thus saith the Lord God,
It shall not stand, neither shall it come to pass,
for the head of Syria is Damascus,
and the head of Damascus is Rezin,
and within three score and five years shall Ephraim be broken,
that it be not a people.
And the head of Ephraim is Samaria,
and the head of Samaria is Ramaliah's son.
If ye will not believe, surely ye shall not be established.
Moreover, the Lord spake again unto Ahaz, saying,
Ask thee a sign of the Lord thy God,
ask it either in the depth or in the height above.
But Ahaz said, I will not ask, neither will I tempt the Lord.
And he said, Hear ye now, O house of David,
is it a small thing for you to weary men,
but will ye weary my God also?
Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign,
behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son,
and shall call his name Immanuel.
Butter and honey shall he eat,
that he may know to refuse the evil and choose the good.
For before the child shall know to refuse the evil and choose the good,
the land that thou abhorrest shall be forsaken of both her kings.
The Lord shall bring upon thee and upon thy people
and upon thy father's house days that have not come,
from the day that Ephraim departed from Judah, even the king of Assyria.
And it shall come to pass in that day that the Lord shall hiss
for the fly that is in the uttermost part of the rivers of Egypt,
and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria.
And they shall come and shall rest, all of them,
in the desolate valleys and in the holes of the rocks,
and upon all thorns and upon all bushes.
In the same day shall the Lord save with a razor that is hired,
namely, by them beyond the river, by the king of Assyria,
the head and the hair of the feet.
And it shall also consume the beard, and it shall come to pass in that day
that a man shall nourish a young cow and two sheep.
And it shall come to pass for the abundance of milk that they shall give,
he shall eat butter.
For butter and honey shall everyone eat that is left in the land.
And it shall come to pass in that day that every place shall be
where there were a thousand vines at a thousand silverlings.
It shall even be for briars and thorns.
With arrows and with bows shall men come thither,
because all the land shall become briars and thorns.
And on all the hills that shall be digged with the matak,
there shall not come neither the fear of briars and thorns,
but it shall be for the sending forth of oxen
and for the treading of lesser cattle.
Chapter 8
Moreover, the Lord said unto me,
Take thee a great roll, and write it in with a man's pen,
concerning Maher shal al-Hashbaz.
And I took unto me faithful witnesses to record Uriah the priest,
and Zechariah the son of Jebur Recahiah.
And I went unto the prophetess, and she conceived, and bare a son.
Then said the Lord to me,
Call his name, Maher shal al-Hashbaz.
For before the child shall have knowledge to cry,
my father and my mother, the riches of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria,
shall be taken away before the king of Assyria.
The Lord spake also unto me again, saying,
For as much as this people refuseth the waters of Shiloh that go softly,
and rejoice and resin in Remaliah's son,
now therefore behold the Lord bringeth up upon them the waters of the river,
strong and many, even the king of Assyria and all his glory,
and he shall come up over all his channels, and go over all his banks.
And he shall pass through Judah, he shall overflow and go over,
he shall reach even to the neck, and the stretching out of his wings,
shall fill the breadth of thy land, O Immanuel.
Associate yourselves, O ye people, and ye shall be broken in pieces,
and give ear, all ye of far countries, gird yourselves,
and ye shall be broken in pieces.
Gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in pieces.
Take counsel together, and it shall come to naught.
Speak the word, and it shall not stand, for God is with us.
For the Lord spake thus to me with a strong hand,
and instructed me that I should not walk in the way of this people,
say ye not a confederacy to all them to whom this people shall say a confederacy.
Neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid.
Sanctify the Lord of Hosts himself, and let him be your fear, and let him be your dread.
And he shall be for a sanctuary, but for a stone of stumbling,
and for a rock of offense to both the houses of Israel,
for a djinn, and for a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
And many among them shall stumble, and fall, and be broken, and be snared, and be taken.
Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples,
and I will wait upon the Lord that hideth his face from the house of Jacob,
and I will look for him.
Behold, I and the children whom the Lord hath given me
are for signs and for wonders in Israel from the Lord of Hosts which dwelleth in Mount Zion.
And when they shall say unto you, seek unto them that have familiar spirits,
and unto wizards that peep, and that mutter,
should not a people seek unto their God for the living to the dead,
to the law and to the testimony, if they speak not according to this word,
it is because there is no light in them.
And they shall pass through it, hardly bested and hungry,
and it shall come to pass, that when they shall be hungry,
they shall fret themselves, and curse their king and their God,
and look upward, and they shall look onto the earth,
and behold, trouble and darkness, demnis of anguish,
and they shall be driven to darkness.
Nevertheless, the demnis shall not be such as was in her vexation,
when at the first he lightly afflicted the land of Zebulon,
and the land of Nephtali,
and afterward did more grievously afflict her,
by the way of the sea, beyond Jordan in Galilee of the nations.
The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light.
They that dwell in the land of the shadow of death,
upon them hath the light shined.
Thou hast multiplied the nation, and not increased the joy.
They joy before thee according to the joy in harvest,
and as men rejoice when they divide the spoil.
For thou hast broken the yoke of his burden,
and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor,
as in the day of Midian.
For every battle of the warrior is with confused noise,
and garments rolled in blood.
But this shall be with burning and fuel of fire,
for unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given,
and the government shall be upon his shoulder,
and his name shall be called Wonderful,
Counselor, the Mighty God,
the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace.
Of the increase of his government and peace,
there shall be no end upon the throne of David,
and upon his kingdom to order it,
and to establish it with judgment and with justice,
from henceforth even forever.
The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this.
The Lord sent his word into Jacob,
and it hath lighted upon Israel,
and all the people shall know, even Ephraim,
and the inhabitant of Samaria,
that say in the pride and stoutness of heart,
the bricks are fallen down, but we will build with hewn stones,
the sycamores are cut down, but we will change them into cedars.
Therefore, the Lord shall set up the adversaries of resin against him,
and join his enemies together.
The Syrians before, and the Philistines behind,
and they shall devour Israel with open mouth.
For all this, his anger is not turned away,
but his hand is stretched out still.
For the people turneth not unto him that smiteth them,
neither do they seek the Lord of hosts.
Therefore, the Lord will cut off from Israel,
head and tail, branch and rush in one day.
The ancient and honorable, he is the head,
and the prophet that teacheth lies, he is the tail.
For the leaders of this people cause them to err,
and they that are led of them are destroyed.
Therefore, the Lord shall have no joy in their young men,
neither shall have mercy on their fatherless and widows.
For everyone is in hypocrite and in evildoer,
and every mouth speaketh folly.
For all this, his anger is not turned away,
but his hand is stretched out still.
For wickedness burneth as the fire,
it shall devour the briars and thorns,
and shall kindle in the thickets of the forest,
and they shall mount up like the lifting up of smoke.
Through the wrath of the Lord of hosts is the land darkened,
and the people shall be as the fuel of the fire.
No man shall spare his brother,
and he shall snatch on the right hand and be hungry,
and he shall eat on the left hand,
and they shall not be satisfied.
They shall eat every man the flesh of his own arm.
Manasseh, Ephraim, and Ephraim Manasseh,
and they together shall be against Judah.
For all this, his anger is not turned away,
but his hand is stretched out still.